RFC 4451 - BGP MULTI_EXIT_DISC (MED) Considerations
Section 3: Implementation and Protocol Considerations

Clarifies the RFC 4271 section 9.1.2.2 step c comparison. Relevant
excerpts on MED comparability, the missing-MED value, and MED under
route reflection and confederations:

   3.  Implementation and Protocol Considerations

      There are a number of implementation and protocol peculiarities
      relating to MEDs that have been discovered that may affect network
      behavior.  The following sections provide information on these
      issues.

   3.1.  MULTI_EXIT_DISC Is an Optional Non-Transitive Attribute

      MULTI_EXIT_DISC is a non-transitive optional attribute whose
      advertisement to both IBGP and EBGP peers is discretionary.  As a
      result, some implementations enable sending of MEDs to IBGP peers by
      default, while others do not.  This behavior may result in sub-
      optimal route selection within an AS.  In addition, some
      implementations send MEDs to EBGP peers by default, while others do
      not.  This behavior may result in sub-optimal inter-domain route
      selection.

   3.2.  MED Values and Preferences

      Some implementations consider an MED value of zero less preferable
      than no MED value.  This behavior resulted in path selection
      inconsistencies within an AS.  The current version of the BGP
      specification [BGP4] removes ambiguities that existed in [RFC1771] by
      stating that if route n has no MULTI_EXIT_DISC attribute, the lowest
      possible MULTI_EXIT_DISC value (i.e., 0) should be assigned to the
      attribute.

      It is apparent that different implementations and different versions
      of the BGP specification have been all over the map with
      interpretation of missing-MED.  For example, earlier versions of the
      specification called for a missing MED to be assigned the highest
      possible MED value (i.e., 2^32-1).

      In addition, some implementations have been shown to internally
      employ a maximum possible MED value (2^32-1) as an "infinity" metric
      (i.e., the MED value is used to tag routes as unfeasible); upon
      receiving an update with an MED value of 2^32-1, they would rewrite

      the value to 2^32-2.  Subsequently, the new MED value would be
      propagated and could result in routing inconsistencies or unintended
      path selections.

      As a result of implementation inconsistencies and protocol revision
      variances, many network operators today explicitly reset (i.e., set
      to zero or some other 'fixed' value) all MED values on ingress to
      conform to their internal routing policies (i.e., to include policy
      that requires that MED values of 0 and 2^32-1 not be used in
      configurations, whether the MEDs are directly computed or
      configured), so as not to have to rely on all their routers having
      the same missing-MED behavior.

      Because implementations don't normally provide a mechanism to disable
      MED comparisons in the decision algorithm, "not using MEDs" usually
      entails explicitly setting all MEDs to some fixed value upon ingress
      to the routing domain.  By assigning a fixed MED value consistently
      to all routes across the network, MEDs are a effectively a non-issue
      in the decision algorithm.

   3.3.  Comparing MEDs between Different Autonomous Systems

      The MED was intended to be used on external (inter-AS) links to
      discriminate among multiple exit or entry points to the same
      neighboring AS.  However, a large number of MED applications now
      employ MEDs for the purpose of determining route preference between
      like routes received from different autonomous systems.

      A large number of implementations provide the capability to enable
      comparison of MEDs between routes received from different neighboring
      autonomous systems.  While this capability has demonstrated some
      benefit (e.g., that described in [RFC3345]), operators should be wary
      of the potential side effects of enabling such a function.  The
      deployment section below provides some examples as to why this may
      result in undesirable behavior.

   3.4.  MEDs, Route Reflection, and AS Confederations for BGP

      In particular configurations, the BGP scaling mechanisms defined in
      "BGP Route Reflection - An Alternative to Full Mesh IBGP" [RFC2796]
      and "Autonomous System Confederations for BGP" [RFC3065] will
      introduce persistent BGP route oscillation [RFC3345].  The problem is
      inherent in the way BGP works: a conflict exists between information
      hiding/hierarchy and the non-hierarchical selection process imposed
      by lack of total ordering caused by the MED rules.  Given current
      practices, we see the problem manifest itself most frequently in the
      context of MED + route reflectors or confederations.

      One potential way to avoid this is by configuring inter-Member-AS or
      inter-cluster IGP metrics higher than intra-Member-AS IGP metrics
      and/or using other tie-breaking policies to avoid BGP route selection
      based on incomparable MEDs.  Of course, IGP metric constraints may be
      unreasonably onerous for some applications.

      Not comparing MEDs between multiple paths for a prefix learned from
      different adjacent autonomous systems, as discussed in section 2.3,
      or not utilizing MEDs at all, significantly decreases the probability
      of introducing potential route oscillation conditions into the
      network.

      Although perhaps "legal" as far as current specifications are
      concerned, modifying MED attributes received on any type of IBGP
      session (e.g., standard IBGP, EBGP sessions between Member-ASes of a
      BGP confederation, route reflection, etc.) is not recommended.

